# Basic Concepts

## Print

print('Hello, world!')

While it's possible to use either double or single quotes around text strings aa best practice is to always use single quotes.

If you need to show apostrophes or quotes inside your string, there are two ways to do this.

print("I'm loving Python")

or

print('I\'m loving Python)

Two print two strings on the same line, pass both into the Print function. Python will automatically add a space between them.

print('The first string.', 'The second string.')

Newline break:

print('This sentence\nincludes a line break')

## Variables

A variable is a named place in memory to store variables, each with a name, type, and value.

greeting = 'Hello, earthling!'
print(greeting)

Change the variable:
greeting = 'Hello, buttface!'

Must start with a letter or _, not numbers. Upper and lower case characters matter. Keywords cannot be used, like from and global.

In some languages, camel-case naming conventions are used, like firstName. But in Python, it's recommended to use underscores, like first_name.

## Data Types

Strings
greeting = 'Hello, earthling!'

Integers
age = 42

Float
height 2.3

Boolean
alive = True

True is equivalent to 1
False is equivalent to 0

## Comments

Comments are not executed. Used to help document code and explain the more complicated code parts.

print('hello') # prints hello string

Multi-line comments are added with triple, double quotes:

"""
This comment
runs across
more than one line
"""
print("Hello, World!")

## Numerical Representations

Underscores in numbers are possible to make it easier to read large numbers:

12000300
12_000_300

Scientific notation is also possible for very large or very small numbers:

4e-4 or 4E4 = 40000

Octal numbers, start with 0O or 0o. Hardly ever used in Python programming, just need to recognize these.

print(0o321)

Hexadecimal numbers, start with 0X or 0x.

print(0x321)

## Operators

2 + 3
3 - 1
2 * 2
4 / 2 = 2.0 (always get a float)
5 / 2 = 2.5
5 // 2 = 2 (always get an integer)
5 % 2 = 1

2 ** 3 = 8

2 + 2.0 = 4.0

## Reassigning Values

age = 42
print(age)

new_age = age + 4
print(new_age)

age = age + 3
print(age)

age += 7
print(age)

age -= 5
age *= 2
age /= 2

String concatenation combines two strings

text = 'one and' + ' two'

String multiplication:

print('fart' * 3)

print(12+3) = 15
print('12'+'3') = 123 (string)

## Input

The input function will ask the user to enter a value.

user_age = input('What is your age?')
print('Your age is,', user_age)

Functions can do two things:
- Cause an effect
- Return a value

When functions like input return a value, we store those in variables to be used or referenced later.

The input function always returns a string.

## Technical Theory

A computer program is a collection of instructions executed by the computer.

The list of instructions are written in the form of machine code. Machine code is difficult for humans to understand so we instead write high-level, source code in languages such as Python, JavaScript, Golang, and so on.

Source code must be translated into machine code. This is done with either compilation or interpretation.

Compilation takes the source code and compiles it into a single executable file that anyone can run.

Interpretation interprets source code into machine code on the fly. This happens every time you run the program. Everyone needs to have the interpreter installed to run the program. Interprated programs are often called scripts.

Python is an interpreted language. It executes code from top to bottom. It throws errors based on checking: lexis, syntax, and semantics.

## Summary



