# Data Types, Evaluations, and Basic I/O

## Type Casting

Sometimes you will want to convert the data type of variable from one to another. This is referred to as type casting. Useful for when you are asking for user input.

age = int(input('Enter your age:'))
age += 1
print('Happy birthday!')

Convert integers and floats into strings with:

print('Your age is: '+ str(age))

## More On Operators

Binary operators work with two operands or two values:

5 + 7
5 - 7

There are also unary operators that work with single values:

print(+12) = 12
print(-2) = -2

Order of operators
1. **
2. *, /, //, %
3. +, -

Floats in Python are approximated. So pay attention when you work with floats.

Exponent operators use right-sided binding. Operations start on the right:

```
2 ** 2 ** 3 = 256
```

## More On Strings

len() returns the length of characters in the string

len('Hello') = 5

print() adds a new line character at the end of each line

print('Hello, world!', end=' ')
print('Python is fun.')

returns > Hello, world! Python is fun.

You can also change the separator value between strings in print statements.

print('Hello', 'World', sep='-') = Hello-World

Putting the sep='' part before the strings will result in an error.

## Bit Operators

Bit operations in Python are almost never used by Python programmers.

- & (logical AND)
- | (logical OR)
- ~ (logical negation)
- ^ (logical XOR)
- << (left shift)
- >> (right shift)

first_bit = 1
second_bit = 0

print(first_bit & second_bit) = 0

print(first_bit & second_bit) = 1

print(first_bit & second_bit) = 0

print(~1) = -2

12 << 1 = 24

12 << 2 = 48

12 >> 1 = 6

12 >> 2 = 3






