# Functions

## Intro to Functions

Create your own functions to make reusable code. You cannot invoke a function before you define it. It's a best practice to keep your function definitions at the top of your file.

```
def greet():
	print('Hello, World!')

greet()
```

## Functions With Parameters

You can pass in variables and literals into functions. The order of arguments is important, unless you use named parameters.

```
def greet(name):
	print('Hello, '+name+'!')

greet('John')

def add_nums(n1, n2):
	return n1+n2

print(add_nums(3,4))
```

## Default Parameter Values

Parameters in functions can have default values. Parameters with a default value must appear at the end of list of parameters; positional argument cannot follow keyword arguments.

```

def greet(name='World'):
	print('Hello, '+name+'!')

greet()
greet('John')
```

## Name Scopes

Variables exist within certain scopes. Variables defined outside of the function have a scope inside, but not the reverse.

Variable shadowing occurs when a variable of the same name is defined inside the function. Two different variables are created and assignments only affect the variable local to the function.

```
def show_var():
	my_var = 'hello'
	print(my_var)

my_var = 'goodbye'
print(my_var)
show_var()
print(my_var)
```

You can circumvent that be using the ```global``` key word before the variable inside the function. Though, it's probably better to never use the global keyword unless it's absolutely necessary.

Now, with lists and dictionaries, it's a little different. New assignments create new lists. However, the append method will append values to the original list.

## The None Value

None is used to describe a null or no value. It is not 0 or False or True or an empty string. It's the absence of value.

When functions do not explicitly return a value, they implicitly return None.

my_value = print('hello')

You can test for None, for example:

```
x = None
if x is None:
	print('It's None!')
```

## The Return Keyword

Functions can return values when called.

```
def add_nums(n1, n2):
	return n1+n2
	
my_sum = add_nums(4,5)
```

## Recursion

Recursion takes place when functions call themselves.

One common example to illustrate recursion are factorials. 3!

```
def get_fact(number):
	if number <= 1:
		return 1
	return number * get_fact(number-1)

fact3 = get_fact(3)
```

## Generators

Generators can return values, one by one.

```
def get_number():
	for i in range(1,4):
		yield i

generator = get_number()

print(next(generator))
print(next(generator))

# use a for loop

for x in get_number():
	print(x)
	
# create a list from the generator function

numbers = list(get_number())
print(numbers)
```




